Restructure content around core concepts (#18)
orbit-love/orbit-model: README.md

- How do I attract new people to my community?
- Which members should I prioritize spending time with?
- What contribution should I ask each community member to make?

Who can use the Orbit Model?

- Developer communities
- Open source projects
- Community-driven businesses
- and more...

### The solar system

A solar system, with all of its celestial bodies and concentric orbits, lends itself well to visualizing a community. Some members are close to the heart of things, others far away. Some members are as large and visible as Jupiter, others barely the size of an asteroid. And of course, everything is constantly in motion.

To make it easy to discuss the differences between members, so we can give them the appropriate experience, the Orbit Model assigns each person 2 core attributes: _love_ and _reach_.

**The goal is to increase Love and Reach for each of your community members.**

## Love

Love is a member's level of engagement and investment in the community. Someone with high love is highly active, capable, and experienced. They're willing and able to play key roles in the community like contributing, moderating, and organizing.

> > "Jennifer has come to the last 5 meetups and next month she's hosting her own. In addition, she just published a blog post about how to install our package on Linux. Her love is increasing fast this year!"

Reviewer: > Her love is increasing fast this year!

Can this example be more specific or actionable? Maybe "Let's feature her work on the Community Showcase site," or, "Let's see if she'd be willing to speak at our conference."

Author: Added something

Members have different degrees of love for each of the communities that they participate in, so love is measured on a community-by-community basis. I might have high love for the running club I help organize but relatively low love for my neighborhood association where I usually skip the meetings.

> **Knowing the love of your community members helps you decide what opportunities you should be offering them,** ranging from those that require a large amount of time and responsibility down to simpler contributions that they can make in a few minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Knowing the love of your community members helps you decide what opportunities you should offer them,** ranging from those that require a large amount of time and responsibility down to simpler contributions that they can make in a few minutes.
```

**The more inline your offer is with the community member's current engagement level, the more likely they are to take you up on it.**

> > On the visual canvas of the Orbit Model, love is represented by distance from the center of the solar system. The more love, the closer to the center.

Reviewer: I was expecting another example here, since pull quotes seem to be used as illustrations/examples. Consider using an icon for these little tips, like 💡 or  🔭

Author: Good idea!

### Measuring love

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Orbit Model, a member's love is inferred by the quantity and quality of activities complete they've completed. ```

To calculate love, start by counting all the activities that a member has done within a recent time period. For example:

- Attended our conference
- Spoke at a meetup
- Opened a pull request on GitHub
- Answered a forum question

It's important to track when members complete these activities so you can do the math. Each activity is given a score of how much engagement it represents. We recommend using a simple 1-10 scale.

> "Organizing a community meetup takes a lot of time and effort, so we give it an activity score of 8/10. Just attending a meetup is a 3/10, but publishing a summary counts for 2 more points."

> Defining your community's list of activities and activity scores is one of the first things to do when starting with the Orbit Model. Make a table that looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Defining your community's list of activities and activity scores is one of the first things to do when starting with the Orbit Model. To get started, first make a table that looks like this:
```

| Terrence Fletcher | 4         | 4           | 4                  |
| Marie Monzo       | 2         | 2           | 2                  |

It’s important to track both the sum and the max, but the **max** tells us more about the most impactful contribution the member can make, and helps determine which opportunity to offer next. More on that below.

> "Jennifer's biggest contribution this year was organizing that meetup, an 8/10 for us. So in our database, her love is 8.”

## Reach

Reach is a measure of a community member’s influence, and takes into account a member's reputation and sphere of influence.

> "Avery is one of our highest-reach community members. They're constantly engaging with folks on twitter and they run a blog with thousands of visitors per month. They're also a senior engineer at a well-respected agency."

Unlike love, reach is independent of a particular community. Exceptions do apply for established communities where understanding a member's reach solely inside of that community is useful, but for smaller communities looking to grow it's generally more important to know about a member's reach in the broad sense.

> Why do we care about reach? Because individuals with high reach will attract others to join them as they journey through our solar system. Our relationship and love-building investment in high reach individuals may pay off bigger as a result. Everyone has some reach though, and one of our jobs as an orbit modeler is to help each of our members grow their sphere of influence. As we'll see in a minute, doing that also helps increase the gravity of our community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Why do we care about reach? Because **individuals with high reach will attract others to join them as they journey through our solar system.** Our relationship and love-building investment in high reach individuals may pay off bigger as a result. Everyone has some reach though, and one of our jobs as an orbit modeler is to help each of our members grow their sphere of influence. As we'll see in a minute, doing that also helps increase the gravity of our community.
```

| Name           | Total Reach |
| -------------- | ----------- |
| Avery Hartford | 5           |
| Laura Blight   | 3           |

If the numbers you've chosen are giving you too many members with 0 points or over 10 points, consider adjusting the reach elements and their scores until the distribution looks right.

> On the visual canvas of the Orbit Model, reach is represented by the diameter of the circle that represents each member. The bigger the circle, the higher the reach.

## Gravity

Gravity is the attractive force of a community that acts to retain existing members and pull in new ones. Potential members see the work going into the community, the value it creates for its members, and eventually get curious about whether they should get involved.

> The startup community in France has picked up a lot of gravity since 2010. Not only are there more companies and entrepreneurs today, but well-known success stories have made it easier for companies to attract global talent.

Gravity is a function of both love—in this example the work that people have put into building the French ecosystem—and also reach—the visibility and awareness of French companies in the global market.

> **The combination of love & reach is the magic recipe that leads to higher growth and sustainability than either factor can alone**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**This combination of love and reach is central to the Orbit Model. Only by measuring and increasing both factors can a community drive sustainable growth.**
```

**Gravity should reflect things that are happening in the community:**

- Gravity goes up when new members join
- Gravity goes up when members participate more (increased love)
- Gravity goes up when members make the community visible (increased reach)
- Gravity goes down when we lose members or participation declines

A basic equation that takes those factors into account is:

```
Gravity = Sum(Love * Reach) for each member
```

**The simplest way to calculate gravity is just to sum up the product of love and reach for each member.**

Using the examples from above, here's what the gravity would look like.

| Member Name       | Love | Reach | Love \* Reach |
| ----------------- | ---- | ----- | ------------- |
| Avery Hartford    | 2    | 5     | 10            |
| Laura Blight      | 6    | 3     | 18            |
| Jennifer Lewis    | 7    | 3     | 21            |
| Terrence Fletcher | 4    | 5     | 20            |
| Marie Monzo       | 2    | 1     | 2             |
|                   |      |       | ----          |
| **Gravity**       |      |       | 71            |

> **Reach is multiplied by (not added to) love because an increase in a member's reach has the potential to make their impact higher across each place they participate.**

Reviewer: > across each place they participate
Can you clarify? e.g. "in each community they participate in," or, "with each activity the complete in your community."

Author: Good call, added something

| 3 - Users              | 3           | 6         |
| 2 - Fans               | 7           | 8         |
| 1 - Ambassadors        | 9           | 10        |

Love is the maximum score for a recent completed activity.

The example table can serve as a guide, but remember that orbit level is ultimately a choice that should factor in your intuition about where in the community the member will best be served.

## Level distribution

How many members should go in each level? What distribution should we be aiming for in our community? These questions will affect how you choose orbit levels, so it's good to have an idea of what your community's distribution should look like before you do that.

No community is the same, but here's a reasonable starting point for many communities. Roughly speaking, each level is 10 times as large as the previous one.

| Orbit Level | Size | Percentage |
| ----------- | ---- | ---------- |
| Ambassadors | 10   | ~1%        |
| Fans        | 100  | ~10%       |
| Users       | 1000 | ~90%       |
| Observers   | ∞    |            |

Observers play a mostly passive, audience-style role in the community, so the size of the level is not bounded.

> j

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> There are a few motivations for having targets around the distribution of orbit levels. First, members need to see visible examples of other members doing work at the next level and build relationships with them, before they consider taking the next step. That can’t happen if there are too few Ambassadors relative to Fans or too few Fans relative to Users. The second motivation is to make sure the community is getting all the different contribution types that it needs. For example, when an Ambassador posts a question on the forum, Fans can help start the conversation, Users can continue it, and Observers can read it.

Reviewer: This section seems like the least clear-cut of them all. I'm not sure I fully grok the first point. The second point seems a lot more practical, and I like the example. 

Also, it seems like there's a missing point about the time commitment from Orbit 0 required to deliver a solid experience to each orbit level.

Author: Tried to make it clearer and added a tip about Orbit 0 commitment

Your mileage will vary, and for that reason it's important to play with the constants. The ratio between different levels can be different too.

## Activities by level

Having a list of activities organized by orbit level makes it easy to find opportunities to offer to each member. Here's an example:

| Activity                | Offer to orbit level |
| ----------------------- | :------------------: |
| Attend our conference   |         All          |
| Reply to forum topic    |         All          |
| Deliver keynote         |       Orbit 1        |
| Organize meetup         |       Orbit 1        |
| Speak at a meetup       |       Orbit 2        |
| Open a pull request     |       Orbit 2        |
| Post forum topic        |       Orbit 2        |
| Share project on forum  |       Orbit 3        |
| Attend event            |       Orbit 3        |
| Receive product credits |       Orbit 3        |
| Read blog post          |       Orbit 4        |
| Subscribe to newsletter |       Orbit 4        |
| Follow us on twitter    |       Orbit 4        |

> The activities aren't exclusive to the orbit levels: Ambassadors hopefully subscribe to the newsletter and follow us on twitter too. But when we want to find an activity to offer to an Ambassador, we can look for activities marked 'Orbit 1' like delivering a keynote or organizing a meetup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The activities aren't exclusive to the orbit levels: Ambassadors hopefully subscribe to the newsletter and follow us on twitter too. But **when we want to find an activity to offer to an Ambassador, we can look for activities marked "Orbit 1," like delivering a keynote or organizing a meetup**.
```

## Promotions

It's a happy moment when you've identified a community member who's ready to move into the next orbit level. In the Orbit Model, we call these promotions.

> The promotion can be an actual moment that you celebrate with the member, or just something that you note down in your community database.

Measuring a member's love will help you identify when it's time to start offering them activities and responsibility characteristic of the next orbit level. If they complete those activities and seem ready for more, you'll know it's time to promote them.

# Orbit KPIs

> Here's a summary of the most important things to measure if you're using the Orbit Model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's a summary of the most important things to measure when using the Orbit Model.
```

| Level size     | Orbit levels 4, 3, 2, and 1           | Count of members at level                | How balanced the community is                    |
| Orbit level    | Member                                | Chosen by Team, factoring in love        | What experience that member should get           |
| Love           | Member                                | Maximum recent activity score (1-10)     | What contribution you can ask the member to make |
| Reach          | Member                                | Sum of reach criteria scores (1-10)      | How likely member is to attract others           |
| Activity score | Member                                | Sum of scores of each completed activity | How much participation the member has            |

# Full example

Coming soon!

# Additional topics

## Groups

Large communities are usually composed of sets of smaller communities. In the Orbit Model these sub-communities are called _groups_. The identity of the group can form around people, places, and things. For example:

- An influential community member; an ambassador
- A geographic location like a city, state, or country; an employer; a program

> - A subproject or interest; a unique belief or perspective;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- People - an influential community member; an ambassador
- Places - a geographic location like a city, state, or country; an employer; a program
- Things - a subproject or interest; a unique belief or perspective
```
